[BLANK_AUDIO]
I guess, would it be like a coffee?
Would it be a girl, with her hair yarn up?
[unclear audio]
[Footsteps]
(footsteps)
(crackling)
- Who's bringing the buckets?
Who's bringing the coffee?
[inaudible]
(speaking in foreign language)
(machinery whirring)
[Street noise]
(water rushing)
[Sounds of water and people talking]
(water splashing)
(water rushing)
[Splashing]
(water splashing)
[ Background noise ]
So the first citric with juice is adding more water, he's just giving it a quick rinse,
and then we're going to wash it a little bit more deeply and then we'll put it to dry.
That's it.
Now secar y ya.
The lycée of producer is an option when you don't have a lot of time,
and you could also go back two ways.
One, it can give you a comparative draft, a control.
What does this coffee taste like with no processing?
And just like pure variety.
And then you do a fermentation.
And then you say, do I like this coffee better as a fermentation, do I like it better as a natural, compared to an earthy pour?
And the second one is the option, if you have a lot of coffee coming,
and maybe you can't keep up with it, and you can't do 100 fermentations for 100 hours,
and you can do something quick and make sure that you can just have the flow.
Because maybe you like this coffee.
Even though there's a very minimal, negligible processing of this.
So we're going to cup that coffee from the previous can?
Yes.
[inaudible]
That's the same as doing it with a hand blender if you don't have a blender.
But immediately, before you make that investment to buy one,
you can use a blender.
Or if you have a blender.
So, the idea of this is to say, "Shouldn't we have just used a mutilator? A mechanical demutilator?"
And I said, "Yes, absolutely. This is what we're doing, but if you're a producer who doesn't want to buy one, or who wants to know if maybe I should buy one,
before you buy one, you can just use lemons and figure it out."
And then say, "I love it! Let's buy a machine."
[laughter]
What about the waste water?
(no, it is quiet, it's the same like basically)
(same as the place)
(yes, yes)
(so)
(cítrico con jugo)
(aquí en este lado y el otro lo colocamos por aquí)
(pero ya está la verdad)
(sí, ya bastante, mire)
(en un momentico, mire)
(pues todo mucho la)
So maybe if we hadn't done this step of washing and you just kind of use that bucket to just
take out the water and you put it out, it could be like a white pipe.
So there's still some use to it potentially.
But that's not what I want.
I want no effect.
I don't want processing.
So I want fast and a lot of sun.
I want this to dry quickly.
So what we're going to do is we're going to spread it out like one layer as thin as possible
to get the water.
I want no effect. I don't want processing.
So I want fast and a lot of sun. I want this to dry quickly.
So what we're going to do is we're going to spread it out like one layer as thin as possible to get the water.
No, up to here to leave the other half.
Yes, the other half. So we're only going to do...
But you can still spread out a little bit.
And then go ahead and sort out all of these defects.
So now we can spend a few minutes just cleaning the coffee.
So let's get the other one now.
But you can smell the aroma of the juice.
Yeah, that's bad.
So this is also insects, right? Or is it just rotten?
Usually an insect made the damage first, like made the introduction, and then it could start to...
So we want, let's clean up.
So anything that's white, broken, chipped, insect damage, these really green ones.
There's a lot.
Let's collect tiny, tiny ones.
Anything that you collect out.
This one is a...
Anything that you collect out?
All the white ones, all the insects.
Green ones are green coffee.
Green ones are underripe, yeah. Green ones are green.
So, something like this?
Yeah.
Right, and you can see the color much more.
You want to get this green?
Yeah, the green.
Oh, okay.
That's a lot of green.
It is a lot.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
[unclear audio]
[ Inaudible ]
So this is fine?
[inaudible]
[Indistinct chatter]
[INAUDIBLE]
[BLANK_AUDIO]
[ Background noise ]
(speaking in foreign language)
This one I think is the powder one, right?
Yes, it is.
It's less concentrated than the other one.
And if you see, it has a little more water than the other one.
It smells like the leaf of the tree.
Is this the juice or the acid?
No, this is the juice.
This is the juice, the powder one.
- Oh.
(wind)
[BLANK_AUDIO]
(sizzling)
- Okay, keep cleaning.
We'll give ourselves a few more minutes
and then we still have to go prepare the lactic.
I just want to leave this like thin and clean.
(speaking in foreign language)
without all the bites, the damage of insects, and ripe ones, they are very green.
Like this one.
This one, I would say, is not as...
No, it's similar.
That one is better.
It's better.
Yes, it's better.
This one.
[ Background noise ]
>> What I love to show too is how much coffee it takes to make coffee.
Like how much you sort out at all of the stages.
It just keeps getting better.
[ Background noise ]
We started with a lot and it's getting very little.
I'm sorry for the ones that are not so green.
This one is beautiful.
(people chattering)
[BLANK_AUDIO]